
# Bain True North Scholarship for Women

Bain TNS is a selection process for female students who have just finished their second year to explore consulting. It consists of an essay + resume based shortlisting round, a test, and then a series of interviews.

## Round 1: Essay + Resume
This round is really important for not just Bain TNS, but all consulting firms in general. Consulting firms look for 'peaks' in your resume. A peak is something differentiating you from the other applicants- it could be a high CGPA, a research project (UGRC or YRF), a leadership role in a POR (quite often Saarang/Shaastra), or being in an inter-IIT team. I'd suggest reaching out to me (I'm Medha from EE23), or any other senior whom you know who got a consulting firm shortlist and checking out their resume / asking them to verify yours. Consult firms are primarily looking for a well-rounded applicant with a diverse skillset, and your resume should reflect that. Also, for TNS specifically, the essay is quite important. It's a 400 word essay on 'What does true north mean to you?'.

## Round 2: Test
The test had 3 parts- Aptitude, reading comprehension and analysis, and a behavioral section. There wasn't a time limit as such, but we were evaluated on accuracy along with time taken. Aptitude had mental ability questions, they required solving but they were mostly standard. The reading comprehension was either analysing surveys, graphs, or a paragraph. I'd suggest practicing these from SAT or GRE material- It was pretty similar. The behavioral section was just rating yourself on a scale of 1 to 5 based on different parameters- don't fake solving this, just answer honestly.

## Round 3: Interviews
Based on resume shortlisting and test, 4-5 students are shortlisted for the interviews based on the ~200 who apply (This is why your resume plays such a big role). Consult interviews require case prep. I'd recommend solving cases from the SRCC book, IIMA, or CIC. CIC (Case interviews cracked) is good to read when you're starting off with case prep with zero experience, then I'd suggest shifting to SRCC and then to IIMA. Watching the Victor Cheng series on Youtube is good too but a little time consuming.
There are 4 basic buckets for cases- profitability, market entry, guesstimates, and unconventional cases. Learn some standard frameworks for the first 2, practice doing guesstimates, and slowly build a knack for solving unconventional ones. Reach out to seniors who have done case prep for inputs, and solve cases with as many people as you can, and get feedback from all of them- seniors, your Bain TNS buddy allotted to you by the company directly, or form a case prep group to practice. Make one person act as the interviewer, one act as the interviewee, and one takes notes- and discuss how the case went at the end. Apart from cases, also prepare a formal introduction about yourself and practice it- it's especially important for consult interviews and sets the tone for the rest of the conversation. I had 2 rounds of interviews- the first round had a qualitative profitability case, and the second round had some growth rate related maths question along with a product growth related case.
